---
layout: post
title: OmniOS Community Edition r151024
---

OmniOS Community Edition release r151024 is now available.

After 4 months of intense development, the OmniOS Community Edition
Association is proud to announce the availability of the first Community
release of OmniOS; version r151024. The release is
[on schedule](https://www.omniosce.org/schedule.html) coming 6 months after the
final OmniTI release of OmniOS back in May.

This [new release](https://github.com/omniosorg/omnios-build/blob/r151024/doc/ReleaseNotes.md)
adds several key improvements to the lx-zones facility allowing for
lightweight virtualization of GNU/Linux in an illumos environment, better
zone resource management, new hardware support and all the latest updates
from upstream illumos; userland packages have also been brought right
up-to-date.  The underlying build system for OmniOS has been enhanced to
make builds and ongoing maintenance easier; for example the total build time
has been more than halved, and the addition of automated testing minimises
the chance for regressions due to updates.

The web site for OmniOS Community Edition has been updated with all the
latest information, including new information for deployment, operation and
development of OmniOS systems.

Sytems running either OmniOSce or OmniTI r151022 can be
[upgraded](/upgrade.html) to this new release. If you run into any problems
please get in touch via [the Lobby](https://gitter.im/omniosorg/Lobby).

OmniOS is an enterprise level operating system with long-term support and
large release overlaps to allow for validation prior to deployment of new
releases.

Many organizations rely on OmniOS driven servers for their core storage and
virtualization environments. As such they want to ensure the continued
development and support of the OmniOS illumos distribution. It is now
possible to support the work that goes into maintaining the OS by becoming
an OmniOS patron, either with a
[recurring donation or a one time payment](/patron.html).

About OmniOS - OmniOS is an Enterprise level illumos-based Operating System
with superb lightweight virtualization support through zones as well as
full hardware virtualization via integrated kvm support. Native ZFS support
provides highly reliable storage options of nearly unlimited capacity. With
dtrace it is possible to instrument virtually any part of the OS to provide
highly precise debugging information to resolve performance issues and
software failures.

About OmniOS Community Edition Association - The OmniOS Community Edition
Association has taken up development and care of OmniOS since Summer 2017
after OmniTI announced their withdrawal from the project.

OmniOSce Association
Aarweg 17, 4600 Olten, Switzerland

<info@omniosce.org>


