---
layout: post
title: OmniOS Community Edition r151028
synopsis: OmniOSce Release r151028
---
The OmniOS Community Edition Association is proud to announce the general
availability of OmniOSce - r151028.

OmniOSce is published according to a 6-month release cycle, r151028 takes over
from r151026, published in May 2018; the next LTS release is scheduled for
May 2019. The old stable r151024 release is now end-of-lifed and will no longer
receive updates. See the [release schedule](/schedule.html) for further
details. 

This is only a small selection of the new features, and bug fixes in the new
release; review [the release notes](/releasenotes.html) for full details.

## New Features

The OmniOSce team and the illumos community have been very active in creating
new features and improving existing ones over the last 6 months. Highlights of
this new release include:

* Production-ready Bhyve hypervisor. For years, OmniOS has provided a linux kvm
based hypervisor. With this release, we are adding a second option. The bhyve
hypervisor from the BSD world has been made a first class illumos component
through the combined efforts of Pluribus networks and Joyent with extra help
from the FreeBSD community. It provides massively faster disk and network io
than the kvm hypervisor as it does not rely on qemu emulation for these
services but comes with a super optimised native driver implementation.

* Branded zones for bhyve and KVM virtual machines. Running a virtual machine
inside a zone provides an additional layer of security as any success in
breaking out of the virtual machine container will only result in access to the
branded zone which itself guarantees strong isolation from the global zone. On
top of added security, zones also provide protection against hyper-threading
attacks such as L1TF and Portsmash, and allow strict resource controls for cpu,
disk and network access. Our website contains documentation on how to make use
of these new zone types.

* ZFS support for mounting filesystems in parallel. This significantly improves
boot time for systems with many filesystems.

* All userland tools are now compiled with gcc7 and several 32-bit only packages
have been moved to 64-bit only.

* Many packages have been updated to newer releases like Python 3.5, Perl 5.28,
OpenSSL 1.1. And developers can now start using gcc 8 on OmniOS.

## New Hardware Support

* Emulex 31000/32000-based Fibrechannel cards.
* ATTO Celerity FC-162E Gen 5 and Celerity FC-162P Gen 6 Fibrechannel cards.
* QLogic 16Gb/s Gen5/6 fibrechannel cards.
* QLogic QL41000/45000 series devices.
* NVMe 1.3 devices.
* SMB access to some HP scanner models.

## Release Notes and Upgrade Instructions

This is only a small selection of the new features, and bug fixes in the new
release; review [the release notes](/releasenotes.html) for full details
and find upgrade instructions at [omniosce.org/upgrade](/upgrade.html)

## OmniOSce Newsletter

Since the start of OmniOS Community Edition project, we have predominantly
announced our new releases via twitter. With r151028 we are now also offering a
newsletter with announcements of updates, bug fixes and new releases. You can
[subscribe here](http://eepurl.com/dL1z7k).

## Commercial Support

Have you ever wondered how OmniOS development gets financed? You may have
noticed that there is no big company bankrolling it all. The way we keep afloat
is by the companies who rely on OmniOS powered servers taking out support
contracts for their hardware. How about you? Visit
[omniosce.org/support](/invoice.html) for more details and to generate a quote.
If you aren't in a position to take a support contract, please consider
becoming an OmniOS patron to help secure its future -
[omniosce.org/patron](/patron.html).

About OmniOS Community Edition Association - this Swiss Association is
responsible for the ongoing development and maintenance of OmniOS, having been
established in Summer 2017 after OmniTI announced their withdrawal from the
project.

_OmniOSce Association_
_Aarweg 17, 4600 Olten, Switzerland_

