---
layout: post
title: OmniOS Community Edition r151036 Stable
synopsis: OmniOS Release r151036 Stable
---
The OmniOS Community Edition Association is proud to announce the general
availability of OmniOS - r151036.

OmniOS is published according to a 6-month release cycle; r151036 stable
will be supported for a year. The old stable r151032 release is now
end-of-life and will receive no further updates.
See the [release schedule](/schedule.html) for further details.

## Release Notes and Upgrade Instructions

For full release notes including upgrade instructions; review [the release
notes](/releasenotes.html) and find upgrade instructions at
[omnios.org/upgrade](/upgrade.html)

If you upgrade from r151030 and want to see all new features added since then,
make sure to also read the release notes for the intervening r151032 and
r151034 releases.

## OmniOSce Newsletter

Since the start of OmniOS Community Edition project, we have predominantly
announced our new releases via twitter. We are now also offering a
newsletter with announcements of updates, bug fixes and new releases. You can
[subscribe here](http://eepurl.com/dL1z7k).

## Commercial Support

Have you ever wondered how OmniOS development gets financed? You may have
noticed that there is no big company bankrolling it all. The way we keep afloat
is by the companies who rely on OmniOS powered servers taking out support
contracts for their hardware. How about you? Visit
[omnios.org/support](/invoice.html) for more details and to generate a quote.
If you aren't in a position to take a support contract, please consider
becoming an OmniOS patron to help secure its future -
[omnios.org/patron](/patron.html).

About OmniOS Community Edition Association - this Swiss Association is
responsible for the ongoing development and maintenance of OmniOS, having been
established in Summer 2017 after OmniTI announced their withdrawal from the
project.

_OmniOSce Association_
_Aarweg 17, 4600 Olten, Switzerland_

