---
layout: post
title: OmniOS Community Edition r151038s, r151036as, r151030ds
synopsis: OmniOS r151038s, r151036as and r151030ds updates
---
OmniOS r151038s, r151036as and r151030ds are now available.

### In all releases

* The `__illumos__` pre-processor token is now defined by the gcc compilers.

* p7zip would truncate passphrases read from the terminal.

### In r151036

* Python has been updated to 3.7.12.

### In r151038

* Python has been updated to 3.9.7 in r151038.

* It is now possible to provide `cloud-init` configuration information to
  bhyve guests. This includes networking configuration and initial passwords/
  SSH keys. See cloud-init in [bhyve(5)](https://man.omnios.org/bhyve.5) for
  more information.

* Windows 11 clients could not connect to SMB shares.

* libstdc++.so was not using a thread-safe _errno_.

* LX was not properly configuring DNS settings for Ubuntu guests.

* The emulated `/proc` filesystem in LX was improperly representing open
  directories, causing problems for some applications.

* `smbd` could crash when a domain controller normally reached via IPv6 became
  unavailable.

* A system with a large number of disks visible through the BIOS (> 64) would
  fail to boot.

* Cloning an `ipkg` zone could fail if the ssh service was not installed.

* Enabling `promiscphys` on a bhyve NIC now automatically configures the
  `promisc-filtered` datalink property.

* KVM and bhyve brand configuration now consistently supports the same
  truth values as bhyve (on/off/true/false/yes/no/0/1) for boolean parameters.

---

For further details, please see
[https://omnios.org/releasenotes](/releasenotes.html)

---

Any problems or questions, please [get in touch](/about/contact.html).

