---
layout: post
title: OmniOS Community Edition r151038 Stable and LTS
synopsis: OmniOS Release r151038 Stable and LTS
---
The OmniOS Community Edition Association is proud to announce the general
availability of the next stable and LTS version of OmniOS - r151038.

OmniOS is published according to a 6-month release cycle, with stable releases
being supported for a year. However, as an LTS release, r151038 will be
supported for four years, and the previous LTS release (r151030) now enters its
last year of support.

The old stable r151034 release is now end-of-life and will receive no further
updates; r151036 will be supported for a further six months.

Refer to the [release schedule](/schedule.html) for further details and
exact dates.

## Release Notes and Upgrade Instructions

Direct upgrades to r151038 are supported from r151030, r151032, r151034 and
r151036. Upgrades from earlier releases will need to be performed in
stages as shown in the table on [omnios.org/upgrade](/upgrade.html).

The highlights of this release include ZFS support for persistent layer 2 ARC,
one-time boot environment activation, new _pkg_ commands for managing
removable packages and many improvements in the _bhyve_ hypervisor.

There are many more changes and improvements in this release and those are
detailed in [the release notes](/releasenotes.html), along with upgrade notes.

## OmniOS Newsletter

Since the start of OmniOS Community Edition project, we have predominantly
announced our new releases via twitter. We are now also offering a
newsletter with announcements of updates, bug fixes and new releases. You can
[subscribe here](http://eepurl.com/dL1z7k).

## Commercial Support

Have you ever wondered how OmniOS development gets financed? You may have
noticed that there is no big company bankrolling it all. The way we keep afloat
is by the companies who rely on OmniOS powered servers taking out support
contracts for their hardware. How about you? Visit
[omnios.org/support](/invoice.html) for more details and to generate a quote.
If you aren't in a position to take a support contract, please consider
becoming an OmniOS patron to help secure its future -
[omnios.org/patron](/patron.html).

About OmniOS Community Edition Association - this Swiss Association is
responsible for the ongoing development and maintenance of OmniOS, having been
established in Summer 2017 after OmniTI announced their withdrawal from the
project.

_OmniOSce Association_
_Aarweg 17, 4600 Olten, Switzerland_

