---
layout: post
title: OmniOS Community Edition r151038k
synopsis: OmniOS r151038k update
---
OmniOS r151038k is now available.

# Security Fixes

* Microcode for Intel CPUs has been updated to the 2021-06-08 release.

* Python has been upgraded to 3.9.6.

# New Features

* It is now possible to use a netgroup database without a system being linked
  to an LDAP or NIS server. Refer to
  [netgroup(4)](https://man.omnios.org/netgroup.4) for more information.

* lx branded zones have been updated to better support distributions using
  systemd >= v247.

* lx branded zones now have basic support for `/proc/<pid>/fdinfo/`

* The Insyde BMC virtual CD-ROM device is now supported.

# Other Changes

* SMB encryption was not working with MacOS 11.4 clients.

* netstat showed duplicate data for UDP source and destination addresses.

* `netstat -u` could associate sockets with the wrong process.

* bhyve branded zones could place pass-through devices into the wrong PCI
  function slot causing problems for the guest. Devices are now always placed
  in numerical order and the location can be overridden -
  see [bhyve(5)](https://man.omnios.org/bhyve.5)

* `csh` would not always operate correctly when being used to run scripts.

* `pkg` now uses less memory when loading catalogues.

* The PCI and USB information databases have been updated.

* It was possible, although rare, to encounter a kernel panic when using
  kernel FPU acceleration in conjunction with RAIDZ pools.

* A rare ZFS panic that could occur when deleting millions of files has been
  fixed.

* NFS server performance has been improved.

* Several fixes for the in-kernel CIFS/SMB support have been incorporated.

---

For further details, please see
[https://omnios.org/releasenotes](/releasenotes.html)

---

Any problems or questions, please [get in touch](/about/contact.html).

